1. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2023 Aug;18(6):896-903. doi: 
10.1080/17483107.2021.1936665. Epub 2021 Jun 8.

Cycling: how can we activate care-dependent older adults with a mild cognitive 
impairment?

Marinus N(1)(2), Hansen D(1)(2)(3), Feys P(1)(2), Meesen R(1), Timmermans A(1), 
Spildooren J(1).

Author information:
(1)REVAL - Rehabilitation Research Center, Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Hasselt University, Diepenbeek, Belgium.
(2)BIOMED - Biomedical Research Center, Hasselt University, Diepenbeek, Belgium.
(3)Heart Centre Hasselt, Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium.

PURPOSE: In residential care, 50% of older adults are sedentary in most of their 
time, regardless of the positive impact of physical exercise on health. This 
study analysed whether television images positively impact the motivation and 
exercise intensity of cycling exercises of older adults in residential care.
METHODS: In this randomised controlled cross-over study, 10 residential older 
adults (mean age 85.0 ± 5.7 years) with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) 
participated in 3 different cycling exercise interventions (TV off, TV turned on 
the National Geographic channel (NG) and TV with MemoRide software 
(Activ84Health®, Leuven, Belgium) (MR) (cybercycling)) compared with a rest 
condition.
RESULTS: The participants cycled significantly more distance during NG compared 
with TVoff (p = 0.024). In comparison to the rest condition, the mean heart rate 
was significantly higher in all exercise conditions while the maximal heart rate 
was only higher during NG (p = 0.022). There was no difference in the Borg scale 
between the different exercise interventions. Interest and enjoyment scored 
significantly higher during NG (p = 0.014) and MR (p = 0.047) compared to the 
rest condition and in the NG versus TVoff (p = 0.018). No significant 
differences were observed in the emotions of the participants.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has shown indications that the addition of television 
images may increase the exercise intensity and motivation to exercise in 
residential older adults with MCI. However, the overall levels of physical 
activity were insufficient to meet the recommendations for moderate-intense 
aerobic exercise according to the International Association of Gerontology and 
Geriatrics and Global Ageing Research Network.Implications for 
rehabilitationCycling in front of a television increases the exercise volume and 
motivation to exercise in residential (pre)frail older adults with 
MCICybercycling had no additional effect in comparison to television images not 
linked to the exercise.Even with television images (pre)frail older adults with 
MCI did not meet the recommendations for moderate-intense aerobic exercise for 
residential older adults according to the IAGG-GARN.

DOI: 10.1080/17483107.2021.1936665
PMID: 34102092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
