1. Cancer Nurs. 2023 Jul-Aug 01;46(4):E261-E267. doi:
10.1097/NCC.0000000000001107.  Epub 2023 Jan 14.

The Significant Predictors for Breast, Cervical, Colorectal, or Oral Cancer 
Screening Intention and Behavior in Taiwan.

Huang HC(1), Chang PC, Li SF, Wang CY, Huang WT, Chen W, Fan SY.

Author information:
(1)Author Affiliations: Department of Community Health (Drs H.-C. Huang and 
Chen), Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (Dr Huang), Division 
of Community Nursing (Mr Li, and Mrs Chang and Wang), and Clinical Medicine 
Research Center (Ms W.-T. Huang), Ditmanson Medical Foundation, Chia-Yi 
Christian Hospital; and Institute of Gerontology, College of Medicine, National 
Cheng Kung University (Dr Fan), Tainan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Cancer screening can improve outcomes in patients with cancer. 
Accordingly, under the direction of the National Health Insurance program, the 
Taiwan government conducts screenings for breast cancer, cervical cancer, oral 
cancer, and colorectal cancer.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to identify the primary predictors of 
cancer screening intention and behavior at 1 and 6 months after patients are 
provided information and an invitation by telephone to attend cancer screenings.
METHODS: In this prospective longitudinal study, 339 participants meeting the 
screening criteria were recruited. At baseline, telephone interviews were used 
to collect information on demographic characteristics, exercise and smoking 
habits, family cancer history, screening beliefs, and screening intention. 
Screening behavior was followed up at 1 and 6 months after the telephone 
interviews.
RESULTS: At baseline, 87.02% of the participants intended to undergo screening, 
and 31.86% and 63.42% had undergone screening after 1 and 6 months, 
respectively. The predictors of screening intention were awareness of the 
screening policy, willingness to learn about screening, and believing in the 
health benefits of screening. The predictor of screening behavior after 1 month 
was screening intention at baseline, and the predictors of behavior after 6 
months were screening intention, marital status, and belief that cancer is a 
hereditary disease.
CONCLUSION: Adults with screening intention tended to undergo cancer screenings.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The use of strategies based on screening intention, 
beliefs, and information can be used to improve participation in cancer 
screening in Taiwan.

Copyright Â© 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000001107
PMID: 35349494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.
