1. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2023 Jul;30(4):654-667. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2022.2071414. Epub 2022 May 4.

Impact of cardiovascular risk factors on the relationships of physical activity 
with mood and cognitive function in a diverse sample.

Minto LR(1), Ellis R(2), Cherry KE(3), Wood RH(4), Barber SJ(1)(5), Carter S(1), 
Dotson VM(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia, United 
States.
(2)Department of Kinesiology & Health, Georgia State University, Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
United States.
(4)School of Allied Health Science, Boise State University, Boise, Idaho, United 
States.
(5)Gerontology Institute, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia, United 
States.

Physical activity has well-known benefits for older adults' mood and cognitive 
functioning; however, it is not clear whether risk factors for cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) affect the relationships of physical activity with these health 
outcomes among diverse older adults. This study investigated the impact of CVD 
risk burden on the relationships among self-reported physical activity, mood, 
and cognitive functioning in a diverse sample of 62 adults age 45 and older. We 
found that higher physical activity was associated with better attention and 
verbal working memory at lower CVD risk, but with worse attention and verbal 
working memory at higher CVD risk levels. Thus, higher CVD risk might limit the 
effectiveness of exercise interventions for mood and cognitive functioning. 
Future studies are needed to further clarify individual differences that impact 
the relationships among physical activity, CVD risk, and cognitive outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2022.2071414
PMCID: PMC10461536
PMID: 35510295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
