1. Eur J Sport Sci. 2023 Jun;23(6):955-963. doi: 10.1080/17461391.2022.2078741. 
Epub 2022 Jun 13.

Genetic polymorphisms related to muscular strength and flexibility are 
associated with artistic gymnastic performance in the Japanese population.

Kumagai H(1)(2), Kaneko T(3), Shintake Y(1)(4), Miyamoto-Mikami E(1), Tomita 
H(1), Fukuo M(1), Kawai W(1), Harada M(1), Kikuchi N(5), Kamiya N(6), Hirata 
K(7), Zempo H(8), Maeda S(4)(7), Miyamoto N(1), Fuku N(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health and Sports Science, Juntendo University, Chiba, 
Japan.
(2)The Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, USA.
(3)Graduate School of Comprehensive Human Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Health and Sport Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Department of Training Science, Nippon Sport Science University, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(6)Faculty of Budo and Sport Studies, Tenri University, Nara, Japan.
(7)Faculty of Sport Sciences, Waseda University, Saitama, Japan.
(8)Faculty of Health and Nutrition, Tokyo Seiei College, Tokyo, Japan.

This study aimed to examine how genetic polymorphisms related to muscular 
strength and flexibility influence artistic gymnastic performance in an attempt 
to identify a novel polymorphism associated with flexibility. In study 1, the 
passive straight-leg-raise (PSLR) score and aromatase gene CYP19A1 rs936306 
polymorphism, a key enzyme for estrogen biosynthesis, were assessed in 278 
individuals. In study 2, athletes (281 gymnasts and 1908 other athletes) were 
asked about their competition level, and gymnasts were assessed using the 
difficulty score (D-score) for each event. Muscular strength- (ACTN3 R577X 
rs1815739 and ACE I/D rs4341) and flexibility-related (ESR1 rs2234693 T/C and 
CYP19A1 rs936306 C/T) genetic polymorphisms were analyzed. In study 1, males 
with the CYP19A1 CT + TT genotype showed significantly higher PSLR scores than 
those with the CC genotype. In study 2, male gymnasts with the R allele of ACTN3 
R577X showed a correlation with the floor, rings, vault, and total D-scores. In 
addition, male gymnasts with the C allele of ESR1 T/C and T allele of CYP19A1 
C/T polymorphisms were correlated with the pommel horse, parallel bars, 
horizontal bar, and total D-scores. Furthermore, genotype scores of these three 
polymorphisms correlated with the total D-scores and competition levels in male 
gymnasts. In contrast, no such associations were observed in female gymnasts. 
Our findings suggest that muscular strength- and flexibility-related 
polymorphisms play important roles in achieving high performance in male 
artistic gymnastics by specifically influencing the performance of events that 
require muscular strength and flexibility, 
respectively.HighlightsEstrogen-related CYP19A1 polymorphism is a novel 
determinant of flexibility in males.Muscular strength- and flexibility-related 
polymorphisms play important roles in high performance in male artistic 
gymnastics.Genotypes of ACTN3 R577X, ESR1 rs2234693, and CYP19A1 rs936306 may 
contribute to training plan optimization and event selection in artistic 
gymnastics.

DOI: 10.1080/17461391.2022.2078741
PMID: 35593181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
