1. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2023 Jan-Mar;44(1):88-101. doi: 
10.1080/02701960.2022.2098285. Epub 2022 Jul 18.

Student coaching in a rural community fall prevention program: An exploratory 
study.

Klima D(1), Austin N(1), Avila K(1), Savoy A(1), Rhoten N(1), Wehland E(1), 
Weimert J(1), Wolfe J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Maryland Hazel Hall, Maryland, 
USA.

Falls are a significant cause of disability internationally. The purpose of this 
exploratory study was to examine the effectiveness of a community fall 
prevention program, Stepping On (SO), using nine student physical therapists and 
program faculty in a rural setting. A mixed-methods design was utilized. 
Students partnered with older adults to master exercises, demonstrate floor 
recovery techniques, and manage community navigation in line with program 
fidelity. A descriptive survey assessed program outcomes. Students participated 
in a follow-up focus group to discuss perspectives on their role in the program. 
One hundred and seventeen community-dwelling older adults (mean age: 75.2 ± 8.5) 
completed the program. Participants who lived alone were likely to limit their 
activities because of fear of falling (p = .045). Following SO most subjects 
(87.7%) described having a better understanding of falls and their causes, with 
a plan to arise from the floor (82.6%). Focus group themes underscored students' 
opportunity to facilitate, reinforce safety during mobility activities, and 
motivate participants. Furthermore, an increased awareness of other professions' 
contribution to fall prevention was noted. Following a community fall prevention 
program, older adults have a better understanding of fall prevention and plan 
for floor recovery. In turn, student coaching skills are reinforced.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960.2022.2098285
PMID: 35848602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
