1. J Autism Dev Disord. 2023 Oct;53(10):3943-3957. doi:
10.1007/s10803-022-05676-y.  Epub 2022 Aug 7.

Aging on the Autism Spectrum: Physical Activity in Individuals Receiving State 
Services in the United States.

Waldron DA(1), Stokes J(2), Coyle CE(3), Kramer J(4), Dugan E(2).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare Management, Stonehill College, North Easton, MA, USA. 
dwaldron@stonehill.edu.
(2)Department of Gerontology, University of Massachusetts Boston, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(3)Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging, University of 
Massachusetts Boston, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 
USA.

This study explores factors associated with participation in moderate physical 
activity and muscle strengthening activity in adults with autism receiving state 
services (age: 18-78 years). Researchers analyzed the National Core 
Indicators-In Person Survey (2017-2018) data using multilevel mixed effects 
logistic regression. Older adults on the autism spectrum engaged in both 
moderate physical activity and muscle strengthening activity less often than 
younger adults on the autism spectrum (OR 0.99; p < 0.05; OR 0.98; p < 0.001). 
Individuals reportedly in fair/poor health had 50% lower odds of engaging in 
moderate physical activity and 30% lower odds of engaging in muscle 
strengthening compared to those in good/ excellent health (OR 0.50; p < 0.001; 
OR 0.70; p < 0.001). Moderate physical activity/muscle strengthening initiatives 
may help foster this group's healthy aging.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-022-05676-y
PMID: 35933645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
