1. Eur Heart J Qual Care Clin Outcomes. 2023 Aug 7;9(5):482-489. doi: 
10.1093/ehjqcco/qcac050.

De-frailing intervention for hospitalized cardiovascular patients in the 
TARGET-EFT randomized clinical trial.

Ahmad F(1)(2), Fountotos R(1)(2), Goldfarb M(1)(3), Bharaj N(2)(4), Munir 
H(1)(2), Marsala J(3), Rudski LG(3), Afilalo J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Experimental Medicine, McGill University, Montreal,QC H4A 
3J1,Canada.
(2)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, QC H3T 
1E2,Canada.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Jewish General Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC H3T 1E2,Canada.
(4)Department of Kinesiology & Physical Education, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC H2W 1S4, Canada. Institution of research trial: Jewish General Hospital, 
Montreal, QC H3T 1E2, Canada.

AIMS: Frailty is disproportionately prevalent in cardiovascular disease patients 
and exacerbated during hospital admissions, heightening the risk for adverse 
events and functional decline. Using the Essential Frailty Toolset (EFT) to 
target physical weakness, cognitive impairment, malnourishment, and anaemia, we 
tested a multicomponent targeted intervention to de-frail older adults with 
acute cardiovascular conditions during their hospital admission.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The TARGET-EFT trial was a single-center randomized 
clinical trial at the Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Canada. We compared a 
multicomponent de-frailing intervention with usual clinical care. Intervention 
group patients received exercise, cognitive stimulation, protein 
supplementation, and iron replacement, as required. In this study, the primary 
outcome was frailty, as assessed by the SPPB score (Short Physical Performance 
Battery) at discharge, and the secondary outcome was the SARC-F score (Strength, 
Assistance walking, Rising from chair, Climbing, Falls) assessed 30 days later. 
The analysis consisted of 135 patients (mean age of 79.3 years; 54% female) who 
survived and completed the frailty assessments.Compared with control patients, 
intervention group patients had a 1.52-point superior SPPB score and a 
0.74-point superior SARC-F score. Subgroup analysis suggested that patients with 
low left ventricular ejection fraction may have attenuated benefits, and that 
patients who underwent invasive cardiac procedures had the greatest benefits 
from the intervention.
CONCLUSION: We achieved our objective of de-frailing older cardiac inpatients on 
a short-term basis by improving their physical performance and functioning using 
a pragmatic multicomponent intervention. This could have positive impacts on 
their clinical outcomes and ability to maintain independent living in the 
future.
ONE SENTENCE SUMMARY: The multicomponent intervention targeted to the deficits 
of vulnerable older adults hospitalized with acute cardiovascular diseases 
successfully de-frailed them on a short-term basis, which can have positive 
implications on their post-discharge health outcomes.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjqcco/qcac050
PMCID: PMC10405162
PMID: 36026532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.
