1. J Orthop Res. 2023 May;41(5):1070-1075. doi: 10.1002/jor.25444. Epub 2022 Sep 
26.

Predicting post-total ankle arthroplasty walking speed based on preoperative 
gait mechanics.

Renner K(1), Delaney C(2), Hill C(3), Sands L(4), Queen R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Arizona College of 
Medicine-Tucson, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Radford University Carilion, Roanoke, 
Virginia, USA.
(3)Clemson University-Medical University of South Carolina Joint Bioengineering 
Program, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.
(4)Center for Gerontology, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Mechanics, Virginia Tech, 
Blacksburg, Virginia, USA.

Decreased walking speed is associated with impaired physical performance and 
function in older adults. Following total ankle arthroplasty (TAA), walking 
speed continues to be slower than age matched controls. The purpose of this 
study was to determine if patients 1 year post-TAA can achieve walking speed 
benchmarks and investigate if gait metrics are predictive of achieved 
benchmarks. 191 TAA patients were recruited and assessed pre-TAA and 1 year 
post-TAA. Kinetic and kinematic data were collected during seven self-selected 
speed barefoot walking trials along a 30-m walkway. Receiver operator 
curves were generated for each variable to determine threshold values needed to 
achieve walking speeds of 0.8, 0.9, 1.1, and 1.3 m/s. Each variable's predictive 
ability was classified according to the area under the curve. Ninety one percent 
of participants achieved a walking speed > 0.8 m/s, 85.3% achieved ≥0.9 m/s, 
64.9% walked at ≥1.1 m/s, and 24.1% achieved a walking speed of 1.3 m/s by 1 
year post-TAA. Walking speed pre-TAA was the strongest predictor with ankle 
moment, power and GRF data showing mixed results. Clinical Significance: 75.9% 
of participants were unable to walk at 1.3 m/s-a speed indicative of safely 
crossing a street. Variables predictive of postoperative walking speed 
benchmarks could be useful in developing interventions for the TAA population. 
The strongest predictor across all walking speed benchmarks was preoperative 
walking speed. A walking speed > 0.71 m/s was predictive of achieving 0.8 m/s 1 
year post-TAA, while >1.09 m/s predicted 1.3 m/s 1 year post-TAA.

© 2022 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.25444
PMID: 36116022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
