1. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2023 Apr 1;102(4):323-330. doi: 
10.1097/PHM.0000000000002097. Epub 2022 Sep 23.

Efficacy of Prehabilitation Before Cardiac Surgery: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-analysis.

Steinmetz C(1), Bjarnason-Wehrens B, Walther T, Schaffland TF, Walther C.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Geriatrics, University Medical Center Göttingen, Georg 
August University, Göttingen, Germany (CS); Institute of Cardiology and Sports 
Medicine, Department Preventive and Rehabilitative Sport and Exercise Medicine, 
German Sport University, Cologne, Germany (BBW); Department of Cardiothoracic 
Surgery, University of Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany (TW); Methods 
Center Tübingen, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany (TFS); and 
Cardiovascular Centrum Bethanien, Department of Cardiology, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany (CW).

OBJECTIVE: Patients awaiting cardiac surgery seem to benefit from exercise-based 
prehabilitation, but the impact on different perioperative outcomes compared 
with standard care is still unclear.
DESIGN: Eligible nonrandomized/randomized controlled studies investigating the 
impact of exercise-based prehabilitation in adults scheduled for elective 
cardiac surgery were searched on December 16, 2020, from electronic databases, 
including MEDLINE, CENTRAL, and CINAHL. The data were pooled and a meta-analysis 
was conducted.
RESULTS: Of 1490 abstracts, six studies ( n = 665) were included into the review 
and meta-analysis. At postintervention interval and at postsurgery interval, 
6-min-walking distance improved significantly in exercise-based prehabilitation 
group compared with controls (mean difference, 75.4 m; 95% confidence interval, 
13.7 to 137.1 m, P = 0.02, and 30.5 m, 95% confidence interval, 8.5 to 52.6 m, P 
= 0.007, respectively). Length of hospital stay was significantly shorter in 
exercise-based prehabilitation group (mean difference, -1.00 day; 95% confidence 
interval, -1.78 to -0.23 day, P = 0.01). Participation in exercise-based 
prehabilitation revealed a significant decrease in the risk of postoperative 
atrial fibrillation in patients 65 yrs or younger (risk ratio, 0.34; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.14 to 0.83, P = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: The participation in exercise-based prehabilitation significantly 
improves postintervention and postsurgery 6-min walking distance, length of 
hospital stay, and decreases the risk of postoperative atrial fibrillation in 
patients 65 yrs or younger compared with controls.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0000000000002097
PMCID: PMC10010695
PMID: 36149383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial disclosure statements have been 
obtained, and no conflicts of interest have been reported by the authors or by 
any individuals in control of the content of this article.
