1. J Aging Phys Act. 2022 Oct 10;31(2):303-310. doi: 10.1123/japa.2022-0091.
Print  2023 Apr 1.

The 180째 Turn Phase of the Timed Up and Go Test Better Predicts History of Falls 
in the Oldest-Old When Compared With the Full Test: A Case-Control Study.

Brauner FO(1)(2), Figueiredo AI(1)(2), Urbanetto MS(2)(3), Baptista RR(3), 
Schiavo A(1)(2), Mestriner RG(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Gerontology Program of the School of Medicine, Pontifical Catholic 
University of Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Porto Alegre, RS,Brazil.
(2)Neuroplasticity and Rehabilitation Research Group (NEUROPLAR), Pontifical 
Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Porto Alegre, RS,Brazil.
(3)School of Health and Life Sciences, Pontifical Catholic University of Rio 
Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Porto Alegre, RS,Brazil.

The 180째 turn phase of the test may better differentiate the oldest-old 
regarding their history of falls. This is a case-control study designed to 
detect the ability of the 180째 turn timed up and go (TUG) phase to detect a 
history of falls in the oldest-old. Sixty people aged 85 years and older were 
assessed in their homes. The single-task and dual-task TUG tests were performed 
using an inertial sensor (G-Walk). Sociodemographic data, physical activity 
levels, mental status, depressive symptoms, concern for falls occurrence, number 
of medicines in use, self-perception of balance, and the functional reach test 
were also assessed. The logistic regressions revealed the 180째 turn phase of 
both the single-task and dual-task TUG was almost three times better than the 
full TUG test to detect a history of falls, thus providing insights that can be 
used to better assess functional mobility in the oldest-old.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.2022-0091
PMID: 36216335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
