1. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2023 Jan;35(1):147-153. doi: 10.1007/s40520-022-02256-z. 
Epub 2022 Oct 21.

Associations between Active Mobility Index and objectively measured physical 
activity among older adults.

Kurita S(1), Doi T(2), Tsutsumimoto K(2), Nakakubo S(2), Kiuchi Y(2)(3), 
Nishimoto K(2)(4), Shimada H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Gerontology, Center for Gerontology and Social 
Science, Research Institute, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
7-430 Morioka-choAichi, Obu, 474-8511, Japan. kuritoshi@ncgg.go.jp.
(2)Department of Preventive Gerontology, Center for Gerontology and Social 
Science, Research Institute, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
7-430 Morioka-choAichi, Obu, 474-8511, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Medical Science Division, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Science and Technology, Shinshu University, Nagano, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Active mobility index (AMI) is a questionnaire to assess going-out 
behavior with physical and social activity. The association between AMI scores 
and objectively measured physical activity (PA) in older adults is unknown.
METHODS: Community-dwelling older adults aged ≥ 70 years participated in an 
examination and wore a triaxial accelerometer for seven or more days. The 
accelerometer measured the time of moderate-to-vigorous intensity PA (MVPA) and 
light intensity PA (LPA), and step counts. The AMI assessed life space (distance 
from the respondent's home: < 1, 1-10, or > 10 km) and related activities during 
the previous month. The AMI total, physical, and social scores were calculated.
RESULTS: The analyzed data were 2499 participants (mean age: 75.5 ± 4.0 years; 
54.4% female). Comparing PA among quartile groups of each AMI score, higher AMI 
total and physical score groups were associated with higher MVPA, LPA, and step 
counts (all P < 0.01). The Q4 group of AMI social scores showed significantly 
higher LPA and step counts than the Q1 and Q2 groups (P < 0.01). The logistic 
regression model showed higher score groups of AMI total and physical scores 
associated with increased adjusted odds ratio (aOR) of meeting recommended PA, 
≥ 150 min/week of MVPA.
CONCLUSIONS: Older adults with higher AMI total and physical scores, engaged in 
more PA. Future studies can use the present findings when estimating PA in older 
adults from AMI scores and examining the association between AMI scores and 
health outcomes.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-022-02256-z
PMCID: PMC9816222
PMID: 36269548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SK, TD, KT, SN, YK, KN, and HS declare that they 
have no conflicts of interest.
