1. Gerontology. 2023;69(1):30-36. doi: 10.1159/000522010. Epub 2022 Oct 25.

Long-Term Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training in Institutionalized Elderly 
Women: A Double-Blind Randomized Controlled Trial.

Martín-Sánchez C(1), Barbero-Iglesias FJ(1), Amor-Esteban V(2), Martín-Sánchez 
M(3), Martín-Nogueras AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Nursing and Physiotherapy Department, University of Salamanca, Salamanca, 
Spain.
(2)Statistics Department, University of Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.
(3)University Clinical Hospital of Salamanca, University of Salamanca, 
Salamanca, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) has been applied to different 
populations, but evidence in elderly women and maintenance of improvements 
achieved during training is scarce. The objective of the study was to evaluate 
the effectiveness of IMT 6 months after finishing the training period in elderly 
women.
METHODS: A controlled, randomized, double-blind trial was conducted, with 
allocation concealment performed on 26 institutionalized elderly women 
distributed into 2 groups: high loads and low loads. Over an 8-week period, an 
IMT protocol was followed; later, elderly women continued for 6 months with 
their daily normal activities. Inspiratory strength, expiratory strength, and 
functional capacity were measured pre-IMT, post-IMT, and 6 months after 
intervention.
RESULTS: After an 8-week training, respiratory strength and functional capacity 
increased in both groups. Six months after finishing the intervention, these 
benefits were lost. Inspiratory strength decreased in the high-loads group but 
was 32% higher than initial values (p = 0.007); in the low-loads group, patients 
lost 41% (p = 0.015). Improvements were higher in the high-loads group after 
training (p = 0.000) and follow-up (p = 0.002). Functional capacity was similar 
to initial values in both groups.
CONCLUSION: The improvements achieved with IMT in elderly women disappeared 6 
months after the end of training. High loads were more effective to keep 
inspiratory strength than low loads.

© 2022 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000522010
PMID: 36282072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
