1. J Physiol. 2023 Feb;601(3):551-566. doi: 10.1113/JP283743. Epub 2022 Nov 29.

Muscle glycogen unavailability and fat oxidation rate during exercise: Insights 
from McArdle disease.

Rodriguez-Lopez C(1)(2)(3), Santalla A(4)(5), Valenzuela PL(6), Real-Martínez 
A(7)(8), Villarreal-Salazar M(7)(8), Rodriguez-Gomez I(2)(3), Pinós T(7)(8), Ara 
I(2)(3), Lucia A(3)(6)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón. 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón (IiSGM), Madrid, Spain.
(2)GENUD Toledo Research Group, Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha, Toledo, 
Spain.
(3)CIBER of Frailty and Healthy Aging (CIBERFES), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Sport and Computer Science, Section of Physical Education and 
Sports, Faculty of Sport, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain.
(5)EVOPRED Research Group, Universidad Europea de Canarias, Tenerife, Spain.
(6)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Hospital '12 de Octubre' ('imas12'), 
Madrid, Spain.
(7)Mitochondrial and Neuromuscular Disorders Unit, Vall d'Hebron Institut de 
Recerca, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)CIBER for rare disease (CIBERER), Madrid, Spain.
(9)Faculty of Sport Sciences, Universidad Europea de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

Comment in
    J Physiol. 2023 Feb;601(3):389-390.

Carbohydrate availability affects fat metabolism during exercise; however, the 
effects of complete muscle glycogen unavailability on maximal fat oxidation 
(MFO) rate remain unknown. Our purpose was to examine the MFO rate in patients 
with McArdle disease, comprising an inherited condition caused by complete 
blockade of muscle glycogen metabolism, compared to healthy controls. Nine 
patients (three women, aged 36 ± 12 years) and 12 healthy controls (four women, 
aged 40 ± 13 years) were studied. Several molecular markers of lipid 
transport/metabolism were also determined in skeletal muscle (gastrocnemius) and 
white adipose tissue of McArdle (Pygm p.50R*/p.50R*) and wild-type male mice. 
Peak oxygen uptake ( V̇O2peak ), MFO rate, the exercise intensity eliciting MFO 
rate (FATmax) and the MFO rate-associated workload were determined by indirect 
calorimetry during an incremental cycle-ergometer test. Despite having a much 
lower V̇O2peak (24.7 ± 4 vs. 42.5 ± 11.4 mL kg-1  min-1 , respectively; 
P < 0.0001), patients showed considerably higher values for the MFO rate 
(0.53 ± 0.12 vs. 0.33 ± 0.10 g min-1 , P = 0.001), and for the FATmax 
(94.4 ± 7.2 vs. 41.3 ± 9.1 % of V̇O2peak , P < 0.0001) and MFO rate-associated 
workload (1.33 ± 0.35 vs. 0.81 ± 0.54 W kg-1 , P = 0.020) than controls. No 
between-group differences were found overall in molecular markers of lipid 
transport/metabolism in mice. In summary, patients with McArdle disease show an 
exceptionally high MFO rate, which they attained at near-maximal exercise 
capacity. Pending more mechanistic explanations, these findings support the 
influence of glycogen availability on MFO rate and suggest that these patients 
develop a unique fat oxidation capacity, possibly as an adaptation to compensate 
for the inherited blockade in glycogen metabolism, and point to MFO rate as a 
potential limiting factor of exercise tolerance in this disease. KEY POINTS: 
Physically active McArdle patients show an exceptional fat oxidation capacity. 
Maximal fat oxidation rate occurs near-maximal exercise capacity in these 
patients. McArdle patients' exercise tolerance might rely on maximal fat 
oxidation rate capacity. Hyperpnoea might cloud substrate oxidation measurements 
in some patients. An animal model revealed overall no higher molecular markers 
of lipid transport/metabolism.

© 2022 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP283743
PMCID: PMC10099855
PMID: 36370371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.
